docs(blog): building a drag and drop list (#2197)
uber/baseweb: documentation-site/pages/blog/drag-and-drop-list/index.mdx

import metadata from './metadata.json';
import Layout from '../../../components/layout';
import {BlogImage, Meta, Caption} from '../../../components/blog';
import {TwitterTweetEmbed} from 'react-twitter-embed';
import Removable from '../../../examples/dnd-list/removable';

export default Layout;

<Meta data={metadata} />

<BlogImage
  src="https://res.cloudinary.com/flycatcher/image/upload/v1572289775/listgif_igl9j7.gif"
  alt="Base Web DnD List component"
  caption="Base Web DnD List component"
/>

> The drag and drop interaction was invented in the 1970's by Jef Raskin as a part of the Macintosh project. That's 40 years ago! So how come that making things draggable on the web is still so painful? We were recently looking for answers since our component library needs to support a sortable list and slider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The drag and drop interaction was invented in the 1970's by [Jef Raskin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jef_Raskin) as a part of the Macintosh project. That's 40 years ago! So how come that making things draggable on the web is still so painful? We were recently looking for answers since our component library needs to support a sortable list and slider.
```

Element.contains();
Element.scrollTop;
requestAnimationFrame(() => {});
```

## ReactDOM.createPortal

There is also one very useful React API - [Portals](https://reactjs.org/docs/portals.html).

> Portals provide a first-class way to render children into a DOM node that exists outside the DOM hierarchy of the parent component.

Why would we need such a thing? It's the only way to make the positioning of dragged items reliable.

```jsx
render() {
  return ReactDOM.createPortal(
    <li>Dragged</li>,
    document.body
  );
}
```

In this example, we "portal" the dragged list item to the bottom of document body. This way the item has no parents and there are no inherited CSS properties that could impact its position (like CSS transforms). You can often see this technique being used for modals or notifications.

## The Algorithm

We have all the tools and APIs we need. Now it's time to put it all into a single algorithm.

<BlogImage
  src="https://res.cloudinary.com/flycatcher/image/upload/v1572409269/Screen_Shot_2019-10-29_at_9.20.29_PM_ye0moq.png"
  style={{width: '50%'}}
  alt="User starts dragging the second item"
  caption="user starts dragging the second item"
/>

> User clicks on the second item and starts dragging it. We set its visibility to hidden so it preserves the surrounding elements and at the same time we portal it to the root. We give it an initial top and left position and as user keeps moving, we update the translate values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User clicks on the second item and starts dragging it. We set its visibility to hidden so it preserves the current space occupied by the item and at the same time we portal it to the root. We give it an initial top and left position and as user keeps moving, we update the translate values.
```
